Update monitoring docs (#2724)
rancher/docs: content/rancher/v2.x/en/monitoring-alerting/_index.md

Using Rancher, you can monitor the state and processes of your cluster nodes, Kubernetes components, and software deployments through integration with [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), a leading open-source monitoring solution.

[use Arvind's wording for explaining kube-prometheus stack]

> Prometheus collects metrics from the cluster components, which you can view in graphs and charts.

Author: updated

> This page describes how to enable monitoring for a cluster using Rancher's new monitoring application, which was introduced in Rancher v2.5. For the legacy docs about monitoring, refer to [this section.](../legacy)

Author: updated

> Before enabling monitoring, be sure to review the [resource requirements.](#resource-requirements)

- [Changes in Rancher v2.5 and Migrating to Monitoring v2](#changes-in-rancher-v2-5-and-migrating-to-monitoring-v2)
- [Differences between `rancher-monitoring` and Upstream Prometheus](#differences-between-rancher-monitoring-and-upstream-prometheus)

> - [Changes to Role-based Access Control](#changes-to-role-based-access-control)

Author: updated

- [Default Alerts, Targets and Grafana Dashboards](#default-alerts-targets-and-grafana-dashboards)

> - [Enable Monitoring](#enable-monitoring)

Author: Updated

- [Uninstall Monitoring](#uninstall-monitoring)

> - [Resource Requirements](#resource-requirements)

Author: updated

> - [Configuration Reference](#configuration-reference)

Author: updated

- [Dashboards](#dashboards)
  - [Grafana UI](#grafana-ui)
  - [Prometheus UI](#prometheus-ui)
  - [Viewing the Prometheus Targets](#viewing-the-prometheus-targets)
  - [Viewing the Prometheus Rules](#viewing-the-prometheus-rules)

>   - [Viewing Active Alerts in Alertmanager](#viewing-active-alerts-in-alertmanager)

Author: updated

> - [Prometheus Adapter](#prometheus-adapter)

Author: updated

If you previously enabled monitoring in Rancher prior to v2.5, there is no upgrade path for the monitoring application. You will need to disable monitoring and re-enable monitoring in Rancher.

For a list of changes in the new monitoring application, refer to this [page.](../migrating)

### Differences between `rancher-monitoring` and Upstream Prometheus

In general, any feature supported by the upstream [Prometheus Operator Helm chart ](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/prometheus-operator) should be supported in the corresponding version Helm chart for Rancher's monitoring application.

The deviations from the upstream Prometheus Operator Helm chart are recorded in the [CHANGELOG.md file](https://github.com/rancher/charts/blob/dev-v2.5/charts/rancher-monitoring/CHANGELOG.md) in the Helm chart of Rancher's monitoring application.

### Changes to Role-based Access Control

Project owners and members no longer get access to Grafana or Prometheus by default. If view-only users had access to Grafana, they would be able to see data from any namespace. For Kiali, any user can edit things they don’t own in any namespace.

> For more information about role-based access control in `rancher-monitoring`, refer to [this page.](./rbac)

Author: updated

### Default Alerts, Targets and Grafana Dashboards

> When `rancher-monitoring` is installed, some alerts, targets, and Grafana dashboards will be set up by default.

Author: updated

> If you want to set up Alertmanager, Grafana or Ingress, it has to be done with the settings on the Helm chart deployment. It's problematic to create Ingress outside the deployment.

> **Prerequisites:**
> 
> - Make sure that you are allowing traffic on port 9796 for each of your nodes because Prometheus will scrape metrics from here.
> - Make sure your cluster fulfills the resource requirements. The cluster should have at least 1950Mi memory available, 2700m CPU, and 50Gi storage. A breakdown of the resource limits and requests is [here.](#resource-requirements)

1. In the Rancher UI, go to the cluster where you want to install monitoring and click **Cluster Explorer.**
1. Click **Apps.**
1. Click the `rancher-monitoring` app.
1. Optional: Click **Chart Options** and configure alerting, Prometheus and Grafana. For help, refer to the [configuration reference.](#../configuration)
1. Scroll to the bottom of the Helm chart README and click **Install.**

> **Result:** The monitoring app is deployed in the `cattle-monitoring-system` namespace.

Author: did you mean the rancher/charts repo?

I've added:

> 
> ### Enabling Monitoring with the Helm CLI
> 
> Helm CLI users can install the Rancher Monitoring chart using the following  commands:
> 
> ```
> helm install rancher-monitoring-crd rancher/stable
> helm install rancher-monitoring rancher/stable
> ```
> 
> However, it is advised to use the Cluster Explorer UI for most use cases.

> **Result:** The monitoring app is deployed in the `cattle-monitoring-system` namespace.

Reviewer: Based on the conversation with @cbron offline, this comment should be dropped entirely since Helm CLI is not a generally supported path by Rancher to install the charts.

@catherineluse can you drop the changes you just added? Sorry about the confusion.

### Next Steps

To configure Prometheus resources from the Rancher UI, click **Apps & Marketplace > Monitoring** in the upper left corner.

# Uninstall Monitoring

1. From the **Cluster Explorer,** click Apps & Marketplace.
1. Click **Installed Apps.**
1. Go to the `cattle-monitoring-system` namespace and check the boxes for `rancher-monitoring-crd` and `rancher-monitoring`.
1. Click **Delete.**
1. Confirm **Delete.**

**Result:** `rancher-monitoring` is uninstalled.

# Resource Requirements

The resource requests and limits can be configured when installing `rancher-monitoring`.

> The default values are in the `values.yaml` in the `rancher-monitoring` Helm chart.

Author: updated with this link https://github.com/rancher/charts/tree/master/charts/prometheus/v9.1.0

> The default values are in the `values.yaml` in the `rancher-monitoring` Helm chart.

Reviewer: The link should be https://github.com/rancher/charts/blob/main/charts/rancher-monitoring/values.yaml, that's the wrong chart

> The default values are in the `values.yaml` in the `rancher-monitoring` Helm chart.

Author: thanks, I have updated the link

> There is a [known issue](https://github.com/rancher/rancher/issues/28787#issuecomment-693611821) that K3s clusters require more default memory. If you are enabling monitoring on a K3s cluster, we recommend to setting `prometheus.prometheusSpec.resources.memory.limit` to 2500Mi` and `prometheus.prometheusSpec.resources.memory.request` to 1750Mi.

Author: updated

| Resource Name | Memory Limit | CPU Limit | Memory Request | CPU Request |
| ------------- | ------------ | ----------- | ---------------- | ------------------ |
| alertmanager | 500Mi | 1000m | 100Mi |  100m |
| grafana | 200Mi | 200m | 100Mi | 100m |
| kube-state-metrics subchart | 200Mi  | 100m | 130Mi | 100m |
| prometheus-node-exporter subchart | 50Mi | 200m | 30Mi | 100m |
| prometheusOperator | 500Mi | 200m | 100Mi | 100m |
| prometheus | 500Mi | 1000m | 100Mi | 100m |
| **Total**                 | **1950Mi** | **2700m** | **560Mi** | **600m** |

At least 50Gi storage is recommended.

# Configuration Reference

For the configuration reference and examples, refer to [this page.](../configuration)

# Dashboards

Installing `rancher-monitoring` makes the following dashboards available from the Rancher UI.

### Grafana UI

> The default username and password for the Grafana instance will be `admin`/`prom-operator`. However, Grafana dashboards are served via the Rancher authentication proxy, so only users who are currently authenticated into the Rancher server have access to the Grafana dashboard. For information about the default permissions, refer to the [roles-based access control section.](./rbac)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rancher allows any users who are authenticated by Kubernetes and have access the Grafana service deployed by the Rancher Monitoring chart to access Grafana via the Rancher Dashboard UI. By default, all users who are able to access Grafana are given the [Viewer](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/permissions/organization_roles/#viewer-role) role, which allows them to view any of the default dashboards deployed by Rancher. 

However, users can choose to log in to Grafana as an [Admin](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/permissions/organization_roles/#admin-role) if necessary. The default Admin username and password for the Grafana instance will be `admin`/`prom-operator`, but alternative credentials can also be supplied on deploying / upgrading the chart.
```

Author: updated
